Add Logging In Topics to Astro and Software Docs (#888)
astronomer/docs: astro/log-in-to-astro.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Log in to Astro'
title: "Log in to Astro"
id: log-in-to-astro
description: Log in to Astro to access Astro features and functionality.
---

You can use the Cloud UI and the Astro CLI to view and modify your workspaces, clusters, environment variables, tasks, and users. Your user credentials need to be authenticated before you can use the Cloud UI or the Astro CLI.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Prerequisites 

- An Astronomer account.
- The [Astro CLI](cli/get-started.md)

```

## Log in to the Cloud UI

1. Go to `https://account.astronomer.io/`, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**.

2. Enter your password and click **Continue**, or select one of the authentication methods used by your organization.

>     If you're the first person in an Organization to authenticate, you're added as a Workspace Admin to a new Workspace named after your Organization. You can add other team members to the Workspace without the assistance of Astronomer support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
If you're the first person in an Organization to authenticate, you're added as a Workspace Admin to a new Workspace named after your Organization. You can then add other team members to the Workspace. See [Add a user](add-user.md).
```

Reviewer: I don't think this needs to be indented because it's not a logical component of step 2.

Author: @jwitz this information is considered a _step result_ (the result of an action a user completed).  Typically, step results are indented to align with the procedure step because they are part of the task; they are the outcome.

## Log in to the Astro CLI

Use the Astro CLI to [deploy code to Astro](deploy-code.md) and create and manage Deployments.

> 1. Install and configure the Astro CLI. See [Get started with the Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started).

Reviewer: If you take the suggestion about the prerequisites above, remove this.

> 1. Install and configure the Astro CLI. See [Get started with the Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started).

Author: Done

    If you're the first person in an Organization to authenticate, you're added as a Workspace Admin to a new Workspace named after your Organization. You can add other team members to the Workspace without the assistance of Astronomer support.

## Log in to the Astro CLI

Use the Astro CLI to [deploy code to Astro](deploy-code.md) and create and manage Deployments.

1. Install and configure the Astro CLI. See [Get started with the Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started).

2. Run the following command:

    ```sh
    astro login
    ```
3. Enter your email address and press **Enter**.

4. Press **Enter** to connect your account to Astronomer.

    If this is your first time logging in, the Astronomer Authorize App dialog appears. Click **Accept** to allow Astronomer to access your profile and email and allow offline access.

## Access a different base domain

A base domain or URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is the static element of a website address. For example, when you visit the Astronomer website, the address bar always displays `https://www.astronomer.io` no matter what page you access on the Astronomer website.

> Every cluster is assigned a base domain. If your organization has multiple clusters, you can run Astro CLI commands to quickly move from one base domain to another. This can be useful when you're authenticated on one cluster, but you need to perform tasks on another cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every cluster is assigned a base domain. If your organization has multiple clusters, you can run Astro CLI commands to quickly move from one base domain to another. This is primarily used for working between Astro and Astronomer Software installations.
```
It's extremely unlikely that an Astro user will ever have to manage this.

> You can authenticate to multiple domains from a single base domain. You run the `astro login x` command to authenticate to a base domain, and then run the `astro context switch x` command to define the default base domain on your computer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can authenticate to multiple domains from a single base domain. You run `astro login` to authenticate to a base domain, and then run the `astro context switch <basedomain>` command to define the default base domain on your machine. 
```
I prefer to use "machine" over "computer" because it's common for users to host multiple OSes/ environments on a single computer. They could also be running the CLI within a hosted environment that they have to access from their physical computer. We consider all of these environments machines, whether they're virtual or physical.

Reviewer: Actually I just noticed that this is not what we have in the style guide 🤔  maybe worth a discussion.

Author: @jwitz for your reference:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/177850280-bdcc3794-b625-49e9-8e8c-4915b50e77e6.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/177850385-b92164d2-7aa4-4491-b803-8b8106b4c359.png)

Reviewer: > It's OK to use machine in content for technical audience and in content about virtualization to describe both physical machines and virtual machines.

Based on this definition, it seems like we _should_ be using machine no? Our product relies on multiple machines, both virtual and physical, in a single workflow. For example, on Software you might test an Airflow project on your local machine (computer), then push that project to a secure cloud environment where you can then deploy it from a virtual machine. 

When we say "Define the default basedomain on your computer", that doesn't account for the multitude of machine contexts that you can set the basedomain in. And given that most people using `astro context switch` are advanced technical users, I think they will understand what we mean by machine. There's enough leeway in this definition to justify the use here.

Author: @jwitz as a compromise, I recommend using "...define the default base domain on your computer and virtual machines". This addresses your concern and adheres to the recommended standard.

---
sidebar_label: 'Log in to Astro'
title: "Log in to Astro"
id: log-in-to-astro
description: Log in to Astro to access Astro features and functionality.
---

> You can use the Cloud UI and the Astro CLI to view and modify your workspaces, clusters, environment variables, tasks, and users. Your user credentials need to be authenticated before you can use the Cloud UI or the Astro CLI.

Author: @paolaperaza I removed _clusters_ and added _deployments_.

## Prerequisites 

> - An Astronomer account.

Author: @paolaperaza the linked topic is not how an account is created. Instead, it provides instructions for adding users. They are two different tasks.  Originally, I linked to an account creation topic, but Jake asked that I remove it.

- The [Astro CLI](cli/get-started.md)

## Log in to the Cloud UI

> 1. Go to `https://account.astronomer.io/`, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**.

Author: @paolaperaza using https://cloud.astronomer.io/login takes you here:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/178332038-39fd7e31-b831-4030-aa19-bc74d9e722a6.png)

Using https://account.astronomer.io/ takes you here:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/178332206-72ec8009-3db2-451d-96fa-1059358f29e5.png)

The procedure recommends using https://account.astronomer.io/ because it is one less click (**Continue with your Astro Account**) and it's accurate. Test the two URLs and see the results.

2. Enter your password and click **Continue**, or select one of the authentication methods used by your organization.

    If you're the first person in an Organization to authenticate, you're added as a Workspace Admin to a new Workspace named after your Organization. You can add other team members to the Workspace without the assistance of Astronomer support. See [Add a user](add-user.md).

## Log in to the Astro CLI

Use the Astro CLI to [deploy code to Astro](deploy-code.md) and create and manage Deployments.

1. In the Astro CLI, run the following command:

    ```sh
    astro login
    ```
2. Enter your email address and press **Enter**.

3. Press **Enter** to connect your account to Astronomer.

>     If this is your first time logging in, the Astronomer Authorize App dialog appears. Click **Accept** to allow Astronomer to access your profile and email and allow offline access.

Author: @paolaperaza I have gone through this process and the behavior is obvious. I don't think there is any need for screenshots.

---
sidebar_label: 'Log in to Astro'
title: "Log in to Astro"
id: log-in-to-astro
description: Log in to Astro to access Astro features and functionality.
---

> You can use the Cloud UI and the Astro CLI to view and modify your workspaces, clusters, environment variables, tasks, and users. Your user credentials need to be authenticated before you can use the Cloud UI or the Astro CLI. User authentication prevents unauthorized access to organizational data and ensures you have the correct permissions to perform specific tasks.

Reviewer: I get your perspective (especially after your time at Okta 😉 ), but I think the typical Astronomer user - someone who either is working with Python data pipelines or administrating a cloud service - is familiar with the value add of authentication. 

Additionally, most users utilize some sort of SSO for their log in. If they use this SSO on other products, then they're familiar with its importance and role in the enterprise ecosystem.

If we had individual user signups/ accounts this would be a different story, but all Astronomer users are part of tech-familiar organizations at the moment.

## Log in to the Cloud UI

In the Cloud UI you can create and manage workspaces, manage users, view your clusters, view lineage data, view task data, and view organization information.

> 1. Go to https://cloud.astronomer.io/ and create an Astronomer account.

Reviewer: I get that, but for the most part users can't create a standalone account [without first being invited](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/add-user). I just tried creating an account with my personal email and ran into problems. 

As it stands, this step is not technically accurate. If we need "Create an account" docs in the future let's make those, but for now I think that step provides more confusion than guidance.

2. Go to https://account.astronomer.io/, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**.

3. Select one of the following options to access the Cloud UI:

    - Enter your password and click **Continue**.
    - To authenticate with an identity provider (IdP), click **Continue with SSO**, enter your username and password, and then click **Sign In**. 
    - To authenticate with your GitHub account, click **Continue with GitHub**, enter your username or email address, enter your password, and then click **Sign in**.

>     - To authenticate with your Google account, click **Continue with Google**, choose an account, enter your username and password, and then click **Sign In**.

Author: @jwitz it should be _self-evident_ that some of the authentication options such as Okta need to be preconfigured. Providing the list of available options might help potential customers understand that they can continue to use their preferred authentication methodology if they choose Astro. Also, these are the options available in the UI and they should be documented.

    - To authenticate with your Google account, click **Continue with Google**, choose an account, enter your username and password, and then click **Sign In**.

    If you're the first person in an Organization to authenticate, you're added as a Workspace Admin to a new Workspace named after your Organization. You can add other team members to the Workspace without the assistance of Astronomer support. See [Add a user](add-user.md).

## Log in to the Astro CLI

Developing locally with the Astro CLI does not require an Astro account. This includes commands like `astro dev start` and `astro dev pytest`. If you want to use functionality specific to Astro, including managing users and [deploying code](deploy-code.md), you must first log in to Astro with the Astro CLI.

Astronomer uses refresh tokens to make sure that you don’t need to log in to the Astro CLI again after your first successful log in.

1. In the Astro CLI, run the following command:

    ```sh
    astro login
    ```
2. Enter your email address and press **Enter**.

> 3. Press **Enter** to connect your account to Astronomer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Press **Enter** again to connect your account to Astronomer. This automatically opens a tab in your browser that prompts you to authenticate via the Cloud UI.

If this is your first time logging in on your device, the **Astronomer Authorize App** dialog appears in your browser. Click **Accept** to allow Astronomer to access your profile and email and allow offline access.

Once authenticated, you will see confirmation in the Cloud UI and in the Astro CLI that your login was successful and that your device is now connected. The name of your default Workspace in the Astro CLI will also appear. To switch Workspace contexts after you log in, see [`astro workspace switch`](astro/cli/astro-workspace-switch.md).
```

- I think important to list this workspace command
- We're missing a step that accounts for actually entering your credentials?

Author: @paolaperaza there have been so many edits, I'm losing track of who requested changes. I _think_ this information appeared in previous iterations of this doc, but it was removed. Sometimes, edits are being edited! 

I have verified the sequence:

1. In the Astro CLI, run the following command:

    ```sh
    astro login
    ```
2. Enter your email address and press **Enter**.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/178767935-270e88f6-1a98-4f24-b1f4-f63071fe48c1.png)

3. Press **Enter** to connect your account to Astronomer.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/178768220-e489bb3f-4034-4dcb-aace-7a3fc0056d7a.png)

4. Select one of the following options to access the Cloud UI:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/178769614-de6ad597-b2ed-4509-94d1-ce37218dc1aa.png)

Success messages:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/178771362-802d02fc-ea31-4a71-897d-80c496145d65.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/178771557-fdcd6cae-88b6-4d7f-8c1f-132690cfb10d.png)

Reviewer 2: You're right! The steps here are what I'm seeing -- but it doesn't look like current status of the OR has them! We'd be missing step 3, which is "enter your user credentials" > login > continue.

Does that make sense?

>     If this is your first time logging in, the Astronomer Authorize App dialog appears. Click **Accept** to allow Astronomer to access your profile and email and allow offline access.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Made edits above

Author: @paolaperaza this text describes different behavior than the . If a user has not logged in previously (ever) this is the sequence. At least it was when I tested it! ; )

Reviewer 2: You are right! Also losing track of what state this was in when I commented. Apologies!

## Access a different base domain

> 
> A base domain or URL is the static element of a website address. For example, when you visit the Astronomer website, the address bar always displays `https://www.astronomer.io` no matter what page you access on the Astronomer website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To use both Astro and Astronomer Software at the same time with the Astro CLI, you must authenticate to each product individually by specifying a corresponding base domain.

A base domain or URL is the static element of a website address. For example, when you visit the Astronomer website, the address bar always displays `https://www.astronomer.io` no matter what page you access on the Astronomer website.
```

Feels a little weird to start this section with an explanation of what a URL is and no context on why the user might be reading this -- took your approach of adding a need-based statement up top before diving in into the context.

> Astronomer product offerings use unique base domains. For all Astro users, the base domain is `cloud.astronomer.io`. For Astronomer Software, every individual cluster is assigned a base domain and you must authenticate every base domain you access. If your organization has multiple clusters, you can run Astro CLI commands to quickly move from one base domain to another. This can be useful when you need to move from an Astronomer Software installation to Astro and are using the Astro CLI to perform actions on both accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Astro users, the base domain is `cloud.astronomer.io`. For Astronomer Software, every individual cluster has a base domain that you must authenticate to in order to access it. If your organization has multiple clusters, you can run Astro CLI commands to quickly move from one base domain to another. This can be useful when you need to move from an Astronomer Software installation to Astro and are using the Astro CLI to perform actions on both accounts.
```

- "unique base domain" isn't necessarily true across the board since Astro is all the same, I think let's just delete
- You don't get assigned a base domain! users pick it

> You can authenticate to multiple domains from a single base domain. You run `astro login` to authenticate to a base domain, and then run the `astro context switch <basedomain>` command to define the default base domain on your computer and virtual machines. 

Reviewer 2: These steps seem off to me. I think this view is more reflective of expected UX, though admittedly it's not amazing yet:

> 1. To view the list of base domains that you have access to, run:
>    ```
>    astro context list
>    ```
>    This list will show only the base domains that you have connected to in the past from your current machine.
> 
> 2. To authenticate to a specific base domain, run:
>    ```
>    astro login <base-domain>
>    ```
>
> 3. To switch to that base domain, run:
>        ```
>        astro context switch <base-domain>
>        ```
>        This command is necessary to make sure that your CLI commands are run against the base domain that you just authenticated to.

Author: @paolaperaza I have changed the sequence. I think the existing text works - I found some of the text you proposed confusing and hard to parse quickly. Happy to discuss it.

> You can authenticate to multiple domains from a single base domain. You run `astro login` to authenticate to a base domain, and then run the `astro context switch <basedomain>` command to define the default base domain on your computer and virtual machines. 

Reviewer 2: I don't actually think the description of `astro context switch` is true -- https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-context-switch

I think it just literally switches you to it, but it doesn't permanently set it as default or anything. I think you do that elsewhere in the CLI

Author: @paolaperaza the text has been updated.

1. In the Astro CLI, run the following command to re-authenticate to the target base domain:

    ```
    astro login
    ```
2. Run the following command to define the default base domain on your computer:

    ```
    astro context switch <basedomain>
    ```

3. Run the following command to view a list of base domains for all Astronomer installations that you can access and to confirm your default base domain:

    ```
    astro context list

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Suggested alternative step order above -- 

- I wouldn't make `astro context list` last, though I can see the argument to make it the confirmation step. 
- If we do keep it, remove wording for "and to confirm your default base domain". I think the default base domain has to be set elsewhere, not here
- I think `astro context list` is important as a first command for the user to know, "ok where am I authenticated to right now and what base domains do I have access to"

Author: @paolaperaza as indicated in the previous comment, the sequence has been adjusted.

---
sidebar_label: 'Log in to Astro'
title: "Log in to Astro"
id: log-in-to-astro
description: Log in to Astro to access Astro features and functionality.
---

> You can use the Cloud UI and the Astro CLI to view and modify your workspaces, deployments, environment variables, tasks, and users. You need to authenticate your user credentials when you're using the Cloud UI or the Astro CLI for development on Astro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to authenticate your user credentials when you're using the Cloud UI or the Astro CLI for development on Astro. After you authenticate, you can view and modify your Workspaces, Deployments, environment variables, tasks, and users. 
```

    - To authenticate with your Google account, click **Continue with Google**, choose an account, enter your username and password, and then click **Sign In**.

    If you're the first person in an Organization to authenticate, you're added as a Workspace Admin to a new Workspace named after your Organization. You can add other team members to the Workspace without the assistance of Astronomer support. See [Add a user](add-user.md). To integrate an identity provider (IdP) with Astro, see [Set up an identity provider](configure-idp.md).

## Log in to the Astro CLI

Developing locally with the Astro CLI does not require an Astro account. This includes commands such as `astro dev start` and `astro dev pytest`. If you want to use functionality specific to Astro, including managing users and [deploying code](deploy-code.md), you must first log in to Astro with the Astro CLI.

Astronomer uses refresh tokens to make sure that you don’t need to log in to the Astro CLI every time you run a command.

1. In the Astro CLI, run the following command:

    ```sh
    astro login
    ```
2. Enter your email address and press **Enter**.

3. Press **Enter** to connect your account to Astronomer.

>     If this is your first time logging in, the Astronomer Authorize App dialog appears. Click **Accept** to allow Astronomer to access your profile and email and allow offline access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If this is your first time logging in from the Astro CLI, the Astronomer Authorize App dialog appears. Click **Accept** to allow Astronomer to access your profile and email and allow offline access.
```

Author: @jwitz this text appears in a task titled _Log in to the Astro CLI_. I don't think this clarification is necessary.

>  4. Select one of the following options to access the Cloud UI:

Reviewer: If you're already logged into the Cloud UI, this step won't happen. The CLI will recognize your UI credentials and immediately log you in. Should we account for that in docs? A user might not see this screen and think that something went wrong with their authentication.

Author: @jwitz we can't account for every scenario. If a user doesn't see what is described and logs in successfully, they will understand the behavior move on.

    - Enter your password and click **Continue**.
    - To authenticate with an identity provider (IdP), click **Continue with SSO**, enter your username and password, and then click **Sign In**. 
    - To authenticate with your GitHub account, click **Continue with GitHub**, enter your username or email address, enter your password, and then click **Sign in**.
    - To authenticate with your Google account, click **Continue with Google**, choose an account, enter your username and password, and then click **Sign In**.

    Confirmation messages appear in the Cloud UI and in the Astro CLI indicating that your login was successful and that your computer is now connected. The name of your default Workspace in the Astro CLI also appears. To switch Workspace contexts after you log in, see [astro workspace switch](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-workspace-switch).

## Access a different base domain

> When you need to access Astro and Astronomer Software with the Astro CLI at the same time, you need to authenticate to each product individually by specifying a base domain for each Astronomer installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access Astro and Astronomer Software with the Astro CLI at the same time, you need to authenticate to each product individually by specifying a base domain for each Astronomer installation.
```

Astronomer uses refresh tokens to make sure that you don’t need to log in to the Astro CLI every time you run a command.

1. In the Astro CLI, run the following command:

    ```sh
    astro login
    ```
2. Enter your email address and press **Enter**.

3. Press **Enter** to connect your account to Astronomer.

    If this is your first time logging in, the Astronomer Authorize App dialog appears. Click **Accept** to allow Astronomer to access your profile and email and allow offline access.

 4. Select one of the following options to access the Cloud UI:

    - Enter your password and click **Continue**.
    - To authenticate with an identity provider (IdP), click **Continue with SSO**, enter your username and password, and then click **Sign In**. 
    - To authenticate with your GitHub account, click **Continue with GitHub**, enter your username or email address, enter your password, and then click **Sign in**.
    - To authenticate with your Google account, click **Continue with Google**, choose an account, enter your username and password, and then click **Sign In**.

>     Confirmation messages appear in the Cloud UI and in the Astro CLI indicating that your login was successful and that your machine is now connected. The name of your default Workspace in the Astro CLI also appears. To switch Workspace contexts after you log in, see [astro workspace switch](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-workspace-switch).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Confirmation messages appear in the Cloud UI and in the Astro CLI indicating that your login was successful and that your device is now connected. The name of your default Workspace in the Astro CLI also appears. To switch Workspace contexts after you log in, see [astro workspace switch](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-workspace-switch).
```

Author: @paolaperaza does this text refer to a computer? If so, our style guide indicates that _computer_ should be used and not _device_. jake appears to prefer machine despite on style guide stating:

Most of the time, don't use _machine_ to mean a computer. Use _computer_ instead.

## Access a different base domain

When you need to access Astro and Astronomer Software with the Astro CLI at the same time, you need to authenticate to each product individually by specifying a base domain for each Astronomer installation.

A base domain or URL is the static element of a website address. For example, when you visit the Astronomer website, the address bar always displays `https://www.astronomer.io` no matter what page you access on the Astronomer website.

For Astro users, the base domain is `cloud.astronomer.io`. For Astronomer Software, every cluster has a base domain that you must authenticate to in order to access it. If your organization has multiple clusters, you can run Astro CLI commands to quickly move from one base domain to another. This can be useful when you need to move from an Astronomer Software installation to Astro and are using the Astro CLI to perform actions on both accounts.

> You can authenticate to multiple domains from a single base domain. You run `astro login` to authenticate to a base domain, and then run the `astro context switch <basedomain>` command to switch to a different Astronomer installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can authenticate to multiple domains from a single base domain.
```

- Is this the same thing/repetitive with the steps?
- What do we mean by being able to authenticate to multiple domains from a single one? Do you just mean with the same Astro CLI?

> 1. Run the following command to view a list of base domains for all Astronomer installations that you can access and to confirm your default base domain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to view a list of Astronomer base domains that you have access to. The base domain that is highlighted in green is your current context.
```

Author: @paolaperaza I didn't see a a "base domain highlighted in green". Also, we shouldn't be using color references for accessibility reasons. I have modified the text you requested.
